well a White House delegation headed by
vice president kamla Harris's National
Security adviser Phil Gordon has arrived
in Tel Aviv for more on this let's speak
to our White House correspondent kimy
halad and kimbley so tell us what more
do we know about this delegation what
are their goals in
Israel yeah well the delegation is
comprised headed up by the national
security or really the uh person who is
overseeing that policy for the vice
president KLA Harris and as you
mentioned his name is Phil Gordon the
vice president was accompanying him as
they met with Arab leaders over the
weekend she since returned to the White
House but he has carried on to meet with
his Israeli counterparts and the reason
is because there is a desire of the
United States to work with the Israelis
to begin those discussions on what the
post Gaza conflict in terms of Israel's
war on Gaza looks like in terms of
governance so uh the United States has
one idea Israel has another and they're
trying to kind of work on what would be
a future and of course include the
vision of the Palestinian people as well
we know that the Palestinian people at
least some of them aren't wild about the
Palestinian Authority being in charge uh
the Israelis are not wild about that
idea either the United States thinks a
revitalized Palestinian Authority might
be something worth looking into or even
some sort of International type
governance so these are all
conversations that are going to be
lengthy but the White House believes
it's time to get started what about the
overall position of the White House of
the administration of the ongoing
assault on
Gaza well we've certainly seen the
position of the White House shift from
the early days in the early days uh
specifically after October 7th when
there was the attack by Hamas in Israel
what we saw was a very angry White House
that really said nothing more than
Israel has a right to defend itself and
use very harsh language towards Hamas
now what we're hearing is something
quite different given the high number of
Civilian casualties in Gaza in fact the
strongest words coming from the
Secretary of Defense Floyd Austin who
said that failing to protect civilians d
drives the civilians into the arms of
the enemy meaning Hamas uh what we've
also heard is the words of the vice
president who have been quite strong as
well where she said there is an
unequivocal responsibility of Israel to
follow International humanitarian law
something that we on Al jazer have been
reporting Israel has not been doing in
its military campaign and also she said
the scale of suffering has been
devastating so this is very strong
language from the vice president uh it's
clear that she has a vision for what
post uh the post conflict should look
like and in fact she spelled it out she
said that it should have no Force
displacement no reoccupation no blockade
no reduction in territory but also the
last note is that there Gaza should not
be used sort of as a staging ground for
uh any sort of future uh as the White
House calls it terrorist activity so uh
the White House has some views they're
trying to work with the Israelis on that
but it's clear the shift now is there is
a priority I'm protecting civilians in
Gaza Kimberly thanks for that Kimberly
Hut there at the White House let's take
this on we can speak now to Steven zunes
who's a professor of politics and
international studies at the University
of San Francisco and joins us now live
from there uh Stephen great to have you
with us where are we at with the us at
this moment do you think over G there
and and what's happening right now and
what will happen afterwards and and how
is the US Administration shifting its
position according to how the public
views
it as your correspondent noted there's
been a notable shift in rhetoric whether
that's going to have any impact on
actual Israeli actions is another story
uh the Biden Administration is
responding to increasing outrage among
the American people that our country is
essentially aiding and abetting war
crimes on a massive scale I mean the
polling data is is quite extraordinary
I've never seen any quite like it that
uh you know nearly 70% of Americans
believe there should be a ceasefire
total ceasefire including uh nearly uh
85% of of of Democrats and similarly a
majority oppose uh US military uh
additional US military aid to Israel and
so the um administration of course is
scrambling uh to try to um uh appease
public opinion given that there's been a
a notable impact in the polls about
Biden's popularity around this indeed uh
he is currently losing to Trump in a
hypothetical race today and it it comes
in large part because of a major drop in
support from young voters and
Progressive voters from Arab Americans
from American Muslims key constituencies
of for the for the Democrats so he is
perhaps for immoral reasons but at least
for political reasons uh there has been
you know a pushing for Israel to uh
comply with International humanitarian
law this is developed potentially into
an election losing
issue yeah exactly exactly we've seen
for example in 1968 when the Democrats
uh nominated a pro Vietnam War accounted
Hubert Humphrey a lot of Democrats
stayed home in Nixon e to Naro Victory
similarly John kery in 2004 um supported
the Iraq War a lot of anti-war people
stayed home were voted third party and
again Bush ended up getting reelected
narrowly and indeed it was Hillary
Clinton's support for the Iraq War uh
that Trump and others kind of hammered
on that led to her narrow loss in 2016
so we've seen before how when Democrats
go against their constituencies on
issues of War and Peace especially when
we're talking about large scale civilian
casualties there is a political price to
be pay Benjamin Netanyahu the Israeli
Prime Minister is seemingly wholly
detered deted and focused in continuing
the destruction and the devastation deaf
to these appeals apparently from the US
Administration what other pressure can
the United States bring to bear on
Israel to you know move more in their
Direction and ease
off I mean theoretically there are any
number of things the United States could
cut off military aid until Israel agrees
to stop attacking and agreed to allow
for the establishment of a viable
Palestinian State alongside Israel or at
least to freeze the settlement expansion
and the Rampages by the uh far right
West Bank uh uh Jewish militia there um
or you know they could recognize the
state of Palestine as over 130 other
countries have been and then bring it to
the United Nations as and to to put
sanctions I mean there are a lot of
things the United States could do but
these aren't even in the cards indeed um
you know the administration is is using
emergency powers to bypass Congressional
and public oversight for the to for to
release stockpiles of weapons including
Hellfire missiles Buster busting bomb
bunker busting bombs I mean the very
weapons that have been responsible for
the horrific uh civilian casualties I
mean almost reminds me of uh Reagan in
and during the 1980s saying to our to
our Central American dictatorships we
were supporting you better be better
careful on human rights while you know
continuing to provide the uh instruments
uh that that allowed them to continue
the slaughter
yes the implications of this war spread
far and wide Stephen we're going to
leave it there but appreciate your
perspective Stephen Yunis zunis I should
say speaking to us there from San
Francisco thank
you